---
layout: post
title: v0.2.4
---

# React v0.2.4 is more awesome

## DNS promises

This release has two major improvements. The first one is that `react/dns` is now using a promise based API. In case you missed it, [react/promise](https://github.com/reactphp/promise) is a PHP library for promises. Take a look at the [README](https://github.com/reactphp/promise#readme) and familiarize yourself with it, as it will be used by many libs in the react ecosystem, including core.

The previous API was:

    $dns->resolve('igor.io', function ($ip) {
        echo "Yay, the IP is $ip.\n";
    });

The new API is:

    $dns
        ->resolve('igor.io')
        ->then(function ($ip) {
            echo "Yay, the IP is $ip.\n";
        });

This does not seem like a big change, but it's quite significant. Because it allows that promise to be passed around and chained together.

    $dns
        ->resolve('igor.io')
        ->then(function ($ip) {
            $sink = new BufferedSink();
            $conn = new Connection(stream_socket_client($ip.':1337'));
            $conn->pipe($sink);

            return $sink->promise();
        })
        ->then(function ($contents) {
            echo "Result: $contents\n";
        });

By returning a promise at the end of each function, you can chain the `then` calls. The next function in the chain will only be called once the previous one is resolved.

Another important point about promises is error handling. The second argument to `then` is an optional error handler, which provides a consistent way of handling async errors. For any async operation that results in one return value, you should use a promise based API.

## Stream primitives

The second new feature in this release is the addition of some basic stream primitives that you can extend. Promises are a great API for eventual return values, but they only work for single values. The real strength of async I/O is processing a stream of data. Such programs should be implemented as streams that parse the data they receive and emit their result on the other end. These programs should communicate via pipes.

With the newly added primitives it is a lot easier to build such streams. The following classes were added to `react/stream`:

* ReadableStream
* WritableStream
* CompositeStream
* ThroughStream
* BufferedSink

### ReadableStream

This is a basic implementation of the `ReadableStreamInterface`. It is useful if you want to provide methods that result in something being emitted. For example a chat client using an imaginary chat protocol:

    class ChatClient extends ReadableStream
    {
        public function say($message)
        {
            $this->emit('data', [sprintf("GLOBAL:%s\n", $this->escape($message))]);
        }

        public function privateMessage($user, $message)
        {
            $this->emit('data', [sprintf("PRIVATE:%s:%s\n", $this->escape($user), $this->escape($message))]);
        }

        private function escape($input)
        {
            return str_replace(["\n", ':'], ['\\n', ''], $input);
        }
    }

    $client->pipe($conn);

    $client->say('Hello everyone!');
    $client->privateMessage('cboden', "Dude, what's up?");

### WritableStream

This is great for creating sinks. A sink is a writable stream that consumes data and forms the end of a pipe chain. Usually it will emit objects on the other side, so it translates from streams to something else. An excellent use case for this is any sort of parser. Just override the `write` method to consume the provided data in any way you want.

    class ChatParser extends WritableStream
    {
        private $buffer = '';

        public function write($data)
        {
            $chunk = $this->buffer.$data;
            if (false !== strpos($chunk, "\n")) {
                $frames = explode("\n", $chunk);
                $chunk = array_pop($frames);
                foreach ($frames as $frame) {
                    $this->parseFrame($frame);
                }
            }
            $this->buffer = $chunk;
        }

        private function parseFrame($frame)
        {
            list($action, $tail) = explode(':', $frame, 2);
            $args = explode(':', $tail);

            $this->emit(strtolower($action), $args);
        }
    }

    $parser = new ChatParser();
    $parser->on('global', function ($user, $message) {
        echo "Received global message from $user:\n";
        echo "$message\n";
    });

    $conn->pipe($parser);

### CompositeStream

The CompositeStream allows you to combine a readable and a writable stream into a single object which implements both readable and writable stream interfaces. For example combining the previous client and parser streams to a single one:

    $client = new ChatClient();
    $parser = new ChatParser();
    $chat = new CompositeStream($client, $parser);

    $conn->pipe($chat)->pipe($conn);

### ThroughStream

The through stream acts as a filter on the data it receives. It receives data and emits other data. By default it just echoes everything. To customize it, override the `filter` method. Here's an example of a shout filter, which uppercases any input:

    class ShoutFilter extends ThroughStream
    {
        public function filter($data)
        {
            return strtoupper($data);
        }
    }

    $shout = new ShoutFilter();
    $conn->pipe($shout)->pipe($conn);

That would be a TCP echo server that just shouts right back at any connected client.

### BufferedSink

The BufferedSink is basically an async version of `stream_get_contents`. It is interesting because it bridges between the stream world and the promise world. It buffers anything it receives until the input stream closes, at which point the promise it provides is resolved.

Here's an example of getting the entire output of an HTTP request, implemented at the TCP level:

    $sink = new BufferedSink();

    $conn->write("GET / HTTP/1.1\r\n");
    $conn->write("\r\n");
    $conn->pipe($sink);

    $sink
        ->promise()
        ->then(function ($data) {
            return str_replace("\r\n", "\n", $data);
        })
        ->then(function ($data) {
            echo "Received HTTP response:\n";
            echo $data;
        });

This one can hopefully also be re-used quite a bit within core.

## Thanks

Thanks to @jsor for `react/promise` and for bringing it into `react/dns`.
