---
layout: post
title: v0.3.0
---

# v0.3.0

Today marks one year since the first commit to the React git repo. It all
began with the words "salut SocketServer".

I'm glad to announce the immediate release of v0.3.0. You can get it via
composer. Just update your constraints to:

    {
        "react/event-loop": "0.3.*"
    }

### New timers API

The timer API of the EventLoop component has been completely rewritten by
@nrk.

The timer callback now receives a `Timer` instance, with the following useful
methods:

  * `cancel`
  * `isActive`
  * `setData($data)`
  * `getData`

And some other less common ones. These are prefered over
`LoopInterface::cancelTimer` and `LoopInterface::isTimerActive`.

Example usage:

    $loop->addPeriodicTimer(5, function ($timer) {
        static $i = 0;
        $i++;
        if ($i > 25) {
            $timer->cancel();
        }
    });

You can no longer return a boolean from a periodic timer callback to abort it.
This was in fact not consistently implemented in all loops anyway. And since
it was an undocumented feature, it's unlikely that anyone is affected by it.

### SocketClient

The socket specific code from HttpClient has been extracted to a new
SocketClient component. Most of this was done by @clue.

It provides connectors to connect to a host:

    $connector = new React\SocketClient\Connector($loop, $dns);

    $connector->create('www.google.com', 80)->then(function (React\Stream\Stream $stream) {
        $stream->write('...');
        $stream->close();
    });

The HttpClient had to be significantly refactored, which resulted in some API
breakages.

Before:

    $connectionManager->getConnection($host, $port);

After:

    $connector->create($host, $port);

### BufferedSink factory method

It's now a lot easier to use the BufferedSink.

Before:

    $sink = new BufferedSink();
    $conn->pipe($sink);
    $promise = $sink->promise();

After:

    $promise = BufferedSink::createPromise($conn);

Check the individual READMEs for more details on how to use a particular
component.
